# Introduction: This is Your Story. Tell it.

*Deep in the bowels of a long abandoned star freighter, a pair of rogues huddle around a massive stasis pod. A shadowy form drifts through the cloudy liquid, barely discernable through the inch-thick glass. One of the explorers, covered head to toe in cybernetic implants, attempts to make sense of the hidden symbols incribed at the base of the pod, detectable only via the ultraviolet spectrum.*

*“Hold that UV beam steady!” he mutters to his companion.*

*But his whispers shatter the perfect silence permeating this vast chamber of the Zeta class cruiser, and soon the echoes are like a siren in the darkness. Pairs of red eyes awaken at the edge of the light, fires of malice that yearn to taste flesh once again. “Zak,” stutters the light bearer as she draws a shining six-shooter, “I don’t think this freighter is abandoned no more.”*

----------

*The death throes of the orcs can be heard two realms over as they fall in waves to the heroes making their last stand upon the Ruins of Ravenwatch. Still, there is no end in sight to the horde that blackens the hills like a swarm of locusts.*

*“They come for the Stone,” grunts a dwarf, pulling his axe from the skull of another pig-headed orc. “Just give it to them, and maybe we’ll get out of this alive.”*

*It is an elven maiden, tall and clad in battle worn mail, who replies: “I’ll have no bard sing tales of Luthiel the Cowardly, who surrendered to orc scum while still she drew breath.”*

*As elf and dwarf bicker, a grey haired man, cloaked in emerald, stands tall atop a boulder at the center of the ruins. His eyes stare distantly, like sharp daggers, at the golden sun landing upon the horizon. With a smirk, he raises his gnarled oaken staff to the sky, where the gathering storm clouds crackle with the fury of nature’s electric potential. “Gentleman, lady…” speaks the druid with soft confidence, “I think the winds have turned in our favor.”*

----------

Welcome to Open Legend, a tabletop roleplaying game (or RPG) in which the players take the part of mighty heroes and wicked villains in order to tell stories of epic proportion. As in the vignettes above, every game of Open Legend revolves around intrepid characters performing heroic deeds. They will fight mythic beasts, outsmart cunning foes, break ancient curses, crack baffling cases, discover untold treasures, and more.

If you have never played a roleplaying game before, you can think of it as a movie in which the actors make up the script (and even much of the plot) as the movie is being shot. One player, called the Game Master (or GM), acts as producer, director, and writer. The GM establishes the setting, creates the antagonists, and develops enough plot to get the other players started. The GM also acts out the part of the villains and neutral characters in the story.

The rest of the players take the role of Player Characters (or PCs). The PCs are the protagonists of the story. In a high fantasy setting, one PC might be a dwarven warrior with a lust for gems, another an immortal elven wizard whose only desire is knowledge, and still another a half-angelic priest who travels the world in order to inspire others to act justly. In another game of Open Legend, the players might star as a rag tag crew of space pirates living from score to score on their barely functioning merchant class starship. All the common tropes could make an appearance: the reckless pilot, the brash captain with a troubled past, the hired gun, the stowaway, and the engineer who gets along with the ship better than with the crew.

Whatever the motivation of their characters, the players share a common goal: to take the plot and setting established by the GM and have fun. At some tables, this might look like J.R.R Tolkien’s Lord of the Rings. In others, it might look more like Monty Python and the Holy Grail. Whatever fun looks like at your table, Open Legend will be a part of it.

This is your story. Tell it.