# Chapter 1: Character Creation

Before you can start telling your story, you’ll need a character to play. This chapter will offer you step-by-step instructions to create your own hero. In Open Legend, you typically begin as a level one character. As you complete missions or quests and gain more experience as a hero, you’ll level up and gain more power. These rules explain how to create a character starting at level one. Later, you’ll learn what to do when you level up.

Before reading on, take a minute and think of your favorite movies, books, or video games.

*Who were the characters you identified with?*

*Who inspired you?*

Now that you’ve got some of your favorites in mind, let’s create your character.

<div style="background-color: beige; padding: 5px 10px 10px 10px; font-size: 16px; margin-bottom: 10px;">
<h2>Pre-generated Characters to Get You Started</h2>
If you would like some character inspiration or an easy place to start, you can browse the pre-generated characters linked below. If you find a character you would like to use, simply copy the spreadsheet and adjust as you see fit. The spreadsheets include formulas to do most of the calculations for you, and you can adjust the <b>Level</b> field to generate the appropriate number of feat and attribute points if you are creating a character above first level.
<br>
<a href="https://drive.google.com/drive/u/0/folders/0Bx_UrXHMi3wmUlJjbDZiaGtIX00">View Pre-generated Character Options</a>
</div>

## Step 1: Describe Your Character
Open Legend is a role playing game, which means your character will need more depth than merely a selection of attributes, feats, perks, and gear. To make your character come to life, add some of the following details. If you can’t think of anything yet, try to fill in the blanks during your first couple of play sessions as you get to know your character better.

**A heroic name.** Be sure to check with your GM to see if they have any particular setting in mind. Phil the Fighter would feel quite out of place next to Therilas Windcaster and Gorion Skullcleaver.

**Your race.** Your decision of race is limited only by your imagination, the setting, and the constraints provided by your GM. A typical fantasy campaign might feature dwarves, elves, halflings, celestials, and dragon-blooded. If you are playing in a futuristic space opera on the fringes of the galaxy, your GM might have several alien races to choose from. Some campaigns, such as a mystery of Lovecraftian horror, might allow only for regular old humans. Really, though, as long as it is approved by your GM, you can play anything you would like, whether that’s a psionic humanoid tiger, a 3-inch tall pixie, or anything in between.

As part of deciding your race, you should also choose your **size**: small, medium, or large. A medium character is roughly the size of an average human. Small creatures range from about 2 - 4 feet in height, while large creatures are about 7 - 10 feet tall. A large creature occupies a 10’x10’ square in combat and has a 10’ reach (see Chapter 7: Combat for details). The GM may assign advantage or disadvantage during situations in which your size is relevant. For example, small creatures may gain advantage on rolls to hide and receive disadvantage on rolls to kick down a door. Likewise, large creatures might suffer disadvantage on attack rolls when fighting in confined spaces but gain advantage on rolls to intimidate smaller creatures.

At the GM’s discretion, you may choose to be even smaller or larger than the listed sizes. A large creature’s reach is always equal to the length of its base. So, a giant with a 15’x15’ base would have a 15’ reach. All creatures always have at least a 5’ reach.

<div style="padding: 5px 10px 10px 10px; background-color: beige; font-size: 16px; margin-bottom: 10px;">
<h3>No Racial Abilities or Adjustments?</h3>
In Open Legend, races do not provide specific mechanical costs and benefits. Instead, you’ll have a chance to further define your character in a later step of character creation by choosing your perks and flaws. Some or all of your decisions at that stage may be influenced by your race, and you are encouraged to explain to the rest of your group how your race informs your choice of perks and flaws. For example, if you are playing a psionic humanoid tiger, you might choose the <i>scent perk</i> to highlight your hunter’s bloodline and the <i>observant</i> perk to simulate your extrasensory perception. Likewise, you could select the <i>hot tempered</i> flaw to represent the savage animal that still lurks beneath your intelligent outer shell.
</div>

**Two exceptional physical traits.** Think of the first two features that other characters notice when they see you. Do your eyes glow red when you are angry? Are you seven feet tall? Is your hair a rainbow hue?

**Two defining social traits.** Maybe you stutter when you’re nervous. Maybe you don’t trust anyone until they’ve proven themselves to you. Or, perhaps, you are a winsome bard who almost always talks in sing-song. Your two social traits should be characteristics that others will learn shortly after getting to know you.

**A secret.** Your secret is something that other characters probably won’t find out about until they’ve gotten to know you quite well. It’s also a seed for great adventure that the GM can weave into the campaign.

<div style="padding: 5px 10px 10px 10px; background-color: beige; font-size: 16px; margin-bottom: 10px;">
<h3>Example Character Secrets</h3>
Before Volkor changed his name and began wandering the land as a barbarian sellsword, he was heir to the throne.
<hr>
Sir Thomas Tuckburrough served as an assassin for the local thieves guild until a job went bad and he murdered an innocent child—that’s when he began his road to the priesthood.
<hr>	
Talia suffered from a horrible car accident as a youth. She only survived because a mad street doctor found her body and kept it alive with a number of cybernetic implants that have left her half machine, both physically and mentally.
</div>

## Step 2: Choose Attributes
Attributes are the backbone of every character in Open Legend. They define what your character can and can’t do—the spheres they excel in, as well as their greatest weaknesses. Whenever your character attempts a heroic action in Open Legend, you’ll look to your attributes to see how well you succeed or fail.

In Open Legend, attributes are divided into four categories: physical, social, mental, and extraordinary.

A character’s skill with each attribute is expressed as a score from 0 (completely unpracticed) to 9 (superhuman). A character cannot use an extraordinary attribute if they have a score of zero, though physical, social, and mental attributes may still be used untrained.

The average commoner or craftsman usually has scores ranging from 1 - 3 in several physical, social, and mental attributes. Extraordinary attributes are generally reserved for characters of power and note.

The Attributes at a Glance tables provide a quick overview of some of the common actions that each attribute will help you accomplish. All of the attributes are explained in further detail in Chapter 2: Actions and Attributes.

| | ####Physical Attributes at a Glance |
|:--|:---------------:|
| Agility | Dodge attacks, move with stealth, perform acrobatics, shoot a bow, pick a pocket |
| Fortitude | Resist poison, shrug off pain, survive in a desert, wear heavy armor |
| Might | Swing a maul, jump over a chasm, break down a door, wrestle a foe to submission |